# Understand the need of Splitting the Data between Training and Testing
----

- Let us first understand the need to divide the dataset between training and testing by considering the following situation.
- Let us suppose a teacher has prepared the question bank of 10 questions for evaluating the preformance of a student on a given topic.


In one situation, teacher share the all the question and their corresponding keys with the student and ask him to prepare for the test. Then, out of these 10 questions teacher asked 4 questions in the test.

Since, the teacher has already shared all 10 questions and their corresponding keys with the student, so there are very high chances that student will learn these questions by heart or just cram these questions.

When from this set of 10 questions, 4 questions are asked in the test, there will be very high chance that studnet will get 100% marks or very good marks. But these high marks do not guarantee that student actually understood the concept.

Same way, when we give the whole dataset to ML system to learn and then test the system from the same dataset then it will return where high accuracy but it does not gurantee that the model actually learns well. These results may be vague and this situation is commonly known as overfitting problem in ML.

To ensure that studnets actually learnt the concept, normally teacher will not share all the questions with student but keep some questions for testing the learning of the student.

Let's suppose that teacher shares only 6 questions along with their keys with the studnet. And then he uses remaining 4 questions for testing the student.

On the basis of performance of studnet on these 4 questions the teacher will evaluate their level of understaing by comparing the answers written by the student with their corresponing keys. (similar to compare the actual results with the expected results). Based on the performance of student on these testing questions, (i.e., 4 questions) the score will be assigned to the students (similar to score of the ML system is assigned).

- To perform train test split of data in Python, we will require model_selection library of sklearn. From this library will use train_test_split method as shown below.

```
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

# First two parameters refer to source of data array as in this case it is X and Y.

# Then we have to specify the `test_size`. In this case `test_size` is 1/3.

# The last parameter is the random_state and it is to 0.
X_train, X_test, Y_train, Y_test = train_test_split(X, Y, test_size=1/3, random_state=0)
```

