## Prob: Imbalanced Data and Its Problems

An imbalanced dataset is a dataset where classes are distributed unequally. An imbalanced data can create problems in the classification task.

## Techniques to Balance the Dataset

- Undersampling
- Oversampling
- Creating synthetic data

## Undersampling
- One approach is to delete examples from the majority class to make them equal to the minority class points and this is `Undersampling`.
- We will randomly sample the 250 no Stroke (Majority Class) data points (out of 4861) to make data points equal to stroke class (Minority Class).

## Oversampling
- Oversampling refers to the resampling of the minority class points to equal the total number of majority points.
- Repetition of the minority class points is one such type of oversampling technique.
- They are referred to as `naive resampling` methods because they assume nothing about the data and no heuristics are used.
- This makes them simple to implement and fast to execute, which is desirable for very large and complex datasets.

## Random Oversampling
- Apart from repetition, we can provide the class weights to both the class
- Random sampling is a method of choosing a sample of observations from a population to make assumptions about the population. It is also probability sampling.
- Random Oversampling involves supplementing the training data with multiple copies of some of the minority classes.
- Oversampling can be dome more than once (2x, 3x, 5x, 10x, etc.) This is one of the earliest proposed methods, that is also proven to be robust.
- Instead of duplicating every sample in the minority class, some of them may be randomly chosen with replacement.
- It is also called probability sampling.

## Creaing Synthetic Data

- The problem with repeating the data is that it does not provide any extra information. One way to increase the information about the data is by creating synthetic data points.
- One such technique is the `SMOTE` (Synthetic Minority Oversampling technique)
- `SMOTE` creates synthetic data points for the minority class. It creates new instances between the points of the minority class.
